© 2026 S&P Global
Comment
June 2026
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m. Dots = long-run average.
S&P Global Eurozone Composite Output PMI
Source: S&P Global PMI. ©2026 S&P Global.
Data were collected 11-25 June 2026.
S&P Global Eurozone Composite PMI Output 
Index at 50.0 (May: 48.5). 3-month high.
S&P Global Eurozone Services PMI Business 
Activity Index at 49.4 (May: 47.7). 3-month high.
Input costs rise at softest pace since February
Eurozone output stabilises in June and inflation cools
After two months of moderate decline in business activity 
across the euro area in April and May, the latest S&P Global 
PMI® survey data signalled a stabilisation of the economy 
at the end of the second quarter. Private sector payroll 
numbers were also broadly steady, after job cutting had 
intensified during the previous month. Other positive 
outcomes included a pick-up in business confidence to a 
four-month high and an easing in the rate of cost inflation. 
The seasonally adjusted S&P Global Eurozone 
Composite PMI® Output Index – a weighted average of 
the Manufacturing PMI Output Index and the Services 
PMI Business Activity Index – rose to its highest level in 
three months in June and in doing so, posted outside of 
contraction territory for the first time since March. At 50.0, 
the headline index was up from 48.5 in May and indicated a 
stabilisation in output, following two months of decline. The 
overall stabilisation in output was a consequence of growth 
in manufacturing being offset by a further (but slower) 
decline in services.
Helping to lift the eurozone economy out of its downturn 
were sharper expansions in business activity in Italy, Spain 
and Ireland. While the currency bloc's two largest nations 
– Germany and France – remained in contraction, rates of 
decline eased from May. In fact, the reduction in German 
private sector output was only marginal. 
Business activity across the euro area managed to stabilise 
in June despite a further reduction in demand. New business 
volumes fell for a fourth successive month, although the 
contraction was marginal and the joint-slowest seen over this 
period (matching March). 
As for new export* business, June heralded another month 
of decline, although as was the case with total new orders, 
the pace of reduction slowed from the previous month. 
Eurozone private sector companies made further inroads 
into their backlogs of work during the latest survey period. 
The rate of depletion was fractionally slower than those seen 
in both April and May, but nonetheless among the quickest 
Chris Williamson, Chief Business Economist at S&P 
Global Market Intelligence:
"An easing of downturn in eurozone service sector business 
activity during June is welcome news and, in conjunction with 
manufacturing growth, means the wider economy has stabilised 
after two months of falling output. 
"A key drag on economic growth since the outbreak of the war 
in the Middle East has been the subduing of demand from 
consumers due to the energy price spike, but these inflationary 
pressures have shown signs of cooling markedly in June. Input 
cost inflation in the service sector fell in June to the greatest 
extent since data were first available in 1998, barring only that 
seen in the COVID-19 lockdowns of early 2020. This has helped 
support a revival of growth of services activity in some of the 
sectors which had been hardest hit by the war, notably leisure 
and tourism. 
"Business confidence in the outlook has also improved to its 
most optimistic since the war began. Hopes are pinned on further 
improvements to demand if the situation in the Middle East 
continues to improve, returning the eurozone to growth as we 
head into the second half of the year.
"The near-unprecedented cooling of cost pressures will take 
the heat out of some of the more hawkish views among ECB 
policymakers, reducing the odds of further rate hikes in the near 
future as rate setters await greater clarity of growth prospects 
and, most importantly, how rapidly price pressures are fading." 
News Release
Embargoed until 1000 CEST (0800 UTC) 3 July 2026
S&P Global Eurozone Composite PMI®
S&P Global Eurozone Composite PMI ®
© 2026 S&P Global
Source: S&P Global PMI. ©2026 S&P Global.
Index, sa, >50 = inflation m/m
Eurozone Composite PMI Input Prices
Eurozone Composite PMI Output Prices
Eurozone Composite PMI Output
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m
-3.2
-2.4
-1.6
-0.8
0.0
0.8
1.6
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Sources: S&P Global PMI, Eurostat via S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Gross domestic product
% qr/qr
© 2026 S&P Global
40
50
60
70
80
90
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
40
45
50
55
60
06/24 12/24 06/25 12/25 06/26
Germany France
Source: S&P Global PMI. ©2026 S&P Global.
Italy Spain
Composite PMI Output
Index, sa, >50 = growth m/m
S&P Global Eurozone Services PMI
over the past year. While the sustained fulfilment of orders 
may be a signal of underused capacity, employment was 
virtually unchanged in June. This represented somewhat 
of an improvement from May, when private sector payroll 
numbers across the eurozone fell at a pace that was the 
quickest in five-and-a-half years (albeit marginal). 
There was a further improvement in business confidence 
across the eurozone in June, taking it further above April's 
recent low. In fact, growth expectations for the coming 12 
months were their most optimistic since the outbreak of war 
in the Middle East. 
A marked easing of inflation rates since May was a key 
finding from the latest PMI survey data. Although input 
prices rose sharply and at a pace that was above the 
historical trend, the rate of increase was the softest in four 
months. Output charges were subsequently raised by the 
smallest margin since March.
*includes intra-eurozone trade.
The S&P Global Eurozone Services PMI Business Activity 
Index posted 49.4 in June, signalling a third successive 
month of falling output. However, having risen from 47.7 
in May, the index was at its highest level since March and 
signalled a pace of decline that was only marginal overall.
Eurozone service providers reported a decline in new 
business intakes at the end of the second quarter. The 
decrease was slightly stronger than that seen for activity 
levels. As such, backlogs of work were cleared, and to a solid 
degree. 
Nevertheless, employment expanded, following a small 
reduction midway through the second quarter. The rate of 
job creation was the fastest since January, albeit minimal. 
Services companies in the euro area turned more optimistic 
towards growth prospects over the next 12 months. 
Sentiment was the highest since February, albeit still below 
the long-run survey average. 
Lastly, input cost inflation in the service sector eased for the 
first time since October last year, bringing it down to a four-
month low. Increases in prices charged were less aggressive 
as a result. 
S&P Global Eurozone Composite PMI ®
© 2026 S&P Global
S&P Global
S&P Global (NYSE: SPGI) provides essential intelligence. We enable governments, businesses 
and individuals with the right data, expertise and connected technology so that they can 
make decisions with conviction. From helping our customers assess new investments 
to guiding them through ESG and energy transition across supply chains, we unlock new 
opportunities, solve challenges and accelerate progress for the world.
We are widely sought after by many of the world’s leading organizations to provide credit 
ratings, benchmarks, analytics and workflow solutions in the global capital, commodity and 
automotive markets. With every one of our offerings, we help the world’s leading organizations 
plan for tomorrow, today.www.spglobal.com/marketintelligence/en/mi/products/pmi
PMI by S&P Global
Purchasing Managers’ Index™ (PMI®) surveys are now available for over 40 countries and also 
for key regions including the eurozone. They are the most closely watched business surveys 
in the world, favoured by central banks, financial markets and business decision makers for 
their ability to provide up-to-date, accurate and often unique monthly indicators of economic 
trends. www.spglobal.com
Disclaimer
The intellectual property rights to the data provided herein are owned by or licensed to 
S&P Global and/or its affiliates. Any unauthorised use, including but not limited to copying, 
distributing, transmitting or otherwise of any data appearing is not permitted without S&P 
Global’s prior consent. S&P Global shall not have any liability, duty or obligation for or relating 
to the content or information (“Data”) contained herein, any errors, inaccuracies, omissions or 
delays in the Data, or for any actions taken in reliance thereon. In no event shall S&P Global be 
liable for any special, incidental, or consequential damages, arising out of the use of the Data. 
Purchasing Managers’ Index™ and PMI® are either trade marks or registered trade marks of 
S&P Global Inc or licensed to S&P Global Inc and/or its affiliates.
This Content was published by S&P Global Market Intelligence and not by S&P Global Ratings, 
which is a separately managed division of S&P Global. Reproduction of any information, 
data or material, including ratings (“Content”) in any form is prohibited except with the prior 
written permission of the relevant party. Such party, its affiliates and suppliers (“Content 
Providers”) do not guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, completeness, timeliness or availability 
of any Content and are not responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), 
regardless of the cause, or for the results obtained from the use of such Content.  In no event 
shall Content Providers be liable for any damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses 
(including lost income or lost profit and opportunity costs) in connection with any use of the 
Content.
If you prefer not to receive news releases from S&P Global, please email  
press.mi@spglobal.com. To read our privacy policy, click here.
Contact
Chris Williamson  
Chief Business Economist  
S&P Global Market Intelligence 
T: +44-20-7260-2329 
chris.williamson@spglobal.com
Joe Hayes 
Senior Principal Economist  
S&P Global Market Intelligence 
T: +44-1344-328-099  
joe.hayes@spglobal.com
Hannah Brook
EMEA Corporate Communications
S&P Global Market Intelligence
T: +44-7483-439-812
hannah.brook@spglobal.com
press.mi@spglobal.com
Methodology
The S&P Global Eurozone Composite PMI® is compiled by S&P Global from responses to 
questionnaires sent to survey panels of manufacturers and service providers in eight nations, 
totalling around 5,000 private sector companies. The panels are each stratified by detailed 
sector and company workforce size, based on contributions to each country’s GDP . 
Survey responses are collected in the second half of each month and indicate the direction 
of change compared to the previous month. A diffusion index is calculated for each 
manufacturing and services survey variable, at the country level. The index is the sum of 
the percentage of ‘higher’ responses and half the percentage of ‘unchanged’ responses. 
The indices vary between 0 and 100, with a reading above 50 indicating an overall increase 
compared to the previous month, and below 50 an overall decrease. The indices are then 
seasonally adjusted. 
Eurozone level indices for manufacturing and services are calculated by weighting together 
the country indices using national manufacturing and services annual value added (source: 
Eurostat). Composite eurozone level indices are calculated by weighting comparable 
manufacturing and services indices using eurozone manufacturing and services annual value 
added (source: Eurostat).
The headline composite figure is the Composite Output Index. This is a weighted average of 
the Manufacturing Output Index and the Services Business Activity Index. It may be referred 
to as the ‘Composite PMI’ but is not comparable with the headline Manufacturing PMI, which 
is a weighted average of five manufacturing indices (including the Manufacturing Output 
Index).
The headline services figure is the Services Business Activity Index. This is a diffusion index 
calculated from a single question that asks for changes in the volume of business activity 
compared with one month previously. The Business Activity Index is comparable to the 
Manufacturing Output Index. It may be referred to as the ‘Services PMI’ but is not comparable 
with the headline Manufacturing PMI. 
Underlying survey data are not revised after publication, but seasonal adjustment factors may 
be revised from time to time as appropriate which will affect the seasonally adjusted data 
series.
Flash data were calculated from 84% of final responses. Since January 2006 the average 
difference between final and flash Composite PMI values is 0.0 (0.3 in absolute terms). Flash 
services data were calculated from 78% of final responses. Since January 2006 the average 
difference between final and flash Services PMI Business Activity Index values is 0.1 (0.3 in 
absolute terms).
For further information on the PMI survey methodology, please contact 
economics@spglobal.com.